hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well
welcome back we online let's go
everybody
hey
what's going on welcome back everybody
hope you all are doing well hope your
week's been off to a good well
hey thank you for all the birthday
wishes i appreciate that hey thank you
everybody
[Laughter]
hey all right turn up
what's going on it's so good to see you
all
crisis hey thank you for the five goods
it subs thank you for being here
hey welcome back everybody
got your third client this month 8k
let's go
turn up that's huge eight grand already
what
let's go
that's amazing to hear thank you for
sharing that
8k in chat
we out here doing things folks we
outside we online let's go
welcome in everybody
all right
uh thank you for the birthday wishes i
appreciate it uh folks are asking the
wife is doing very very well
um
minor car accident just just wanted to
make sure everything was okay so we're
in the hospital for a night but doing
perfectly fine everything's going well
so i appreciate all the
all the outpouring of support people
were i had people i have people dming me
in pokemon
like reaching out all over the place to
send good vibes and and well wishes so i
appreciate all the support thank you for
uh everyone that sent me a message i
can't respond to all of y'all but i
appreciate it thanks for coming through
uh we got a lot of fun stuff tonight
double dizzle hey thank you for the
gifted subs rufio with the raid
146 folks
146 with the raid like i always say
folks if you uh you got some time before
stream there's nothing better to do than
to be in rufio stream before this stream
you get the raid
they were at
211 let's go turn up
all right i appreciate when they came
through with the raid everybody's
hanging out with the stream team i
appreciate y'all uh wife's doing well i
appreciate all the good wishes we got a
lot of fun stuff to get into tonight
folks i promise
i promise
i'm gonna blow your mind tonight when i
was learning this stuff
oh when i was learning this stuff it's
like a whole new world opened
i felt like i felt like dr strange
opened a portal and i stepped through it
and everything was different so i'm
hoping
that's for you the the the like you see
what's behind the curtain and we were in
oz the whole time so i i promise
that i'm going to blow your mind and
then we're going to get to node so we
can be full stack software engineers by
the end of tonight you will be a full
stack software engineer
what
let's go turn up
a copper lily a glad you're able to join
us live web do a welcome let's go
got the gang in here tonight let's go
all right so as always i'd like to start
off with some
questions you got questions
i got answers
i won't do the question i'm going to say
that question of the day it's a tuesday
because we had so many people in here
saying happy birthday
we got questions
i got answers i always like to do this
for a little bit to give folks a second
to get in here to get situated to get
things set up to get the things
downloaded
almost caught up on youtube should i
start live with back end yeah join us
tonight join us tonight cause it's gonna
be like the
we're gonna just get a little nibble of
node but it's more about like what is
node that's the goal of tonight like
what is it how what are we gonna use it
for
uh my resume isn't done is there gonna
be another opportunity to check yes for
wanting it shared not ready but it will
be uh no
just don't fill out the form until
tuesday
you'll notice that i submitted the i
shared the form for you to submit your
professional links but then if you keep
the homework for this weekend i ask you
to finish it so not everyone is finished
so take the weekend to finish and then
submit it on tuesday
you know
if we are just getting into js should we
attend this class you can but your
mind's going to be blown i think if you
if you haven't started any javascript
like you've written any javascript then
skip this one and come back later so you
can officially have your mind blown but
if you've been doing a little bit of
javascript you're doing click events
event listener stuff like that then this
is still up your alley
so here's the thing if you submit these
links you can just update the links like
the links aren't going to change right
so even if you edit your resume even if
you edit your stuff like the link's
still the same so just edit it and i'll
have the updated version
don't resubmit though that that that
that causes me too much headache like
don't keep re-spamming like links either
submit it or don't submit it but don't
keep re-spamming it because that's too
hard for me to keep track of
it because the problem so yeah don't
just don't keep like don't spam resubmit
just update your links that's all
and and no worries that like this isn't
like the official thing like eventually
we'll have places where you're going to
upload everything we're going to share
all the official stuff with me like
don't don't freak out like that it's not
perfect
you'll have you'll have time to make it
more perfect but this isn't like we're
going to put you up on the on the
internet with this stuff no i would
never do that without asking you first
networking and finding clients has been
a struggle being so behind on these two
things has all my hard work been a waste
it's not a waste it's just that we know
that the networking is the thing that
gets you jobs and so there remember we
talked about all these doors being
opened the whole point is to open as
many doors as you can not everyone has
the privilege of opening all the doors
and so the networking opens a lot of
them but there's still opportunities if
you're if you're kind of if you're kind
of behind on that aspect so you should
still push yourself to get that done to
unlock that to be more focused when we
get to the hit list but know that it's
all about opening as many doors as
possible and some folks can open one and
two and really go ham on those one or
two and get an opportunity but it's
about being prepared it's about opening
as many doors so we can get the
opportunities coming our way
cool
are we still letting people in the
hundreds of linkedin group yeah i
haven't been able to let anyone in in
the past couple days but if you keep
signing up for it i'll keep letting
people in
always feel free to join the classes
live you don't have to worry yeah
can our 100 hours project being react it
can be it still has to be a full stack
web application but if you want to
include react sure no worries
all right
alrighty folks let's get into this we
got a lot of folks
in here we're gonna do some great things
tonight we're gonna talk about callbacks
promises
async await and then node
and then we're going to start building
full stack web applications i'm excited
you're here
let's go ahead let's get into it
we got some things to do before we jump
into the learning tonight and so as
always if you haven't checked in yet
please check in
you can always do exclamation point
check in here to get the link you still
have to click the link like and retweet
on twitter remember you have your fresh
start
so your past attendance doesn't matter
but your attendance starting now does so
make sure you're doing the liking and
the retweeting so that we know that
you're here in class it also helps folks
find us they don't want to spending
twenty thirty thousand dollars on a boot
camp they can come here
and community
get community taught folks get community
taught so appreciate the check-in
we're gonna do office hours on
sunday so sunday 1 p.m our traditional
office hours we're going to come we're
going to answer some of your questions
we're going to talk more about node
it'll be a good office hours our office
hours always chill
we're not going to do anything on friday
this this week because i still need some
time to catch up because i missed a
couple days uh due to the accident so
just regular office hours on sundays
gonna be a good office hour so i'm hyped
for it and then next week we'll start
doing like the car practice prep
practice all that fun stuff
cool
alrighty
newsletter oh boy there was a newsletter
raffle
let me go ahead and grab folks from the
newsletter raffle
remember
newsletter goes out every day before
class all the goodies are in that
newsletter before class
and so i'm just going to go ahead i'm
going to plop everybody's uh
name that filled out the newsletter
raffle already and i'm telling you
there's gonna be some good stuff coming
up in that newsletter raffle we're doing
vip today vip just helps you it makes
you stand out here on twitch you can
flex on your uh can be a good old flex
asaurus if you know what i mean
all these people trying to get in here
you're too late
should i open the newsletter
you should open the newsletter all right
i'm going to grab all these names real
quick
and we're going to plop them into the
the name picker
there were
953 of you all that opened it before
class start well at least not saying
opened it but at least filled it out
because we got we have a lot more people
that newsletter than that let's go ahead
and paste it in
here are the names that filled it out
before before class
let's go ahead and and pick a random
name here and then they're going to get
vip
all right flick flicks 2 4 6 8 you get
i'm going to go ahead and do that right
now
vip isn't forever but it's for a good
time
all right flick flicks you got vip
congrats
like i say always folks it pays to open
the newsletter you can do exclamation
point newsletter to sign up if you're
worried that you haven't been signed up
you can always try resubmitting it again
but yeah activation point newsletter
doesn't sign you up for the newsletter
you have to click the link
to sign up for the newsletter and fill
out your information
alrighty congratulations to flick flicks
you now vip
feels good don't it
alrighty
today's my birthday thank you for all
the birthday wishes and uh well wishes
and so i i have a
i have i have a birthday wish to ask of
you all
a birthday wish right nobody supposed to
keep your wishes to yourself i'm gonna
make mine public
my birthday wish
is that you follow every person that's
on the new people that have joined the
stream team recently this is in
descending order of the folks that have
joined recently and so if you haven't
followed fox minewolf rufio yet please
follow them on twitch
if you haven't followed them on twitter
yet please follow them on twitter
dakota decoder hey thank you for the 10
gift that subs i appreciate it thank you
so much thank you for being here
all right
and uh if you haven't turned on
notifications in the stream team channel
yet please go ahead and turn on we only
post we only post when we're going live
and we only post when we're going live
and we're working on code related stuff
right so no spam no anything it's just
stream team members it's just when we're
going live working on good code related
stuff and so if you haven't given them a
follow yet please if you haven't turned
on notifications for the stream team
channel please
uh that's that's what i want for my
birthday folks that's my my deep-seated
birthday wish i really hope that you
give these folks a follow
i really love this idea of being
community taught so many people say
they're self-taught that's not what we
do here we're community taught here
right we we we learn from each other we
learn from each other on discord and my
favorite thing is going to
uh fellow stream team members and seeing
the things that they're working on and
seeing so many of you all there working
along with them doing code wars doing
review from the things that we covered
in class you can pick up so more so much
more amazing things by hanging out with
our stream team members
so
i hope that you uh
if you look here look let's get real for
a second
if you put happy happy birthday in the
chat
but you didn't follow them it was kind
of it was kind of all cap right like you
didn't really mean it they really mean
happy birthday like you just kind of you
know yeah everybody else is saying let
me say you know you know what i'm saying
you know what i'm saying so yeah
you're kind of committed i've already
locked in
all right
thank you i appreciate you all thank you
for being here
all right we talked about our fresh
start you guys
talked about our fresh start
meaning that in the past the things that
you did didn't matter they like
the slate has been wiped clean you
forgot
to check in one or two classes that's
okay you forgot to submit a homework or
two that's okay your fresh start starts
now you got to check in starting today
you got to start submitting the
assignments starting today right so
the slate has been wiped clean
and we do that so that folks that are
joining us can still get all the
wonderful goodies that we're going to
have at the end of program so the
check-in is important the submitting
your homework on time is important it
helps me when we're doing things like um
reference calls for me to be able to say
yeah this person always shows up on time
right like i want to be able to when i
talk about people
i talk about them in the most positive
light possible and i use real things so
when somebody i'm on a reference call
with somebody like yeah they showed up
every day perfectly on time never missed
a day and i'm telling the truth because
i can see that you checked in every
single day right as class started so i
can i feel comfortable saying yeah every
single day they showed up they did their
things they submitted all their work
they got everything done right like i
want to be able to talk about you in
that light and so that's why the
checking in is important that's why
submitting your homework on time is
important right
my wife says i just got a hundred
followers in five minutes let's go turn
up
all righty
let's keep pushing folks
the networking is coming back we got to
start the networking right
right
would there be a separate bank list for
all those that want to freelance only no
because it's not the path that i'm
laying out here this is not a i want a
freelance type of experience i love
freelancing i think it's to be something
that's to support you uh
but i think you should get a job
because
freelancing is such a hard difficult
beast it has so many pitfalls
and i've seen so many of my students get
wrecked
because they have a downs a down spin
right where they have three to six
months without really any significant
clients they're not making the money
that they need to make right so i do
really recommend you get a job first
keep your freelancing game going and
then once you have a bunch of evergreen
clients right like clients that keep
coming back to you paying you month
after month year after year then you can
go full time freelance now that's up to
you if you want to take that advice i
just seen too many of my students burn
out so i just don't advocate it i think
freelancing is a great supplement but
not something that i would tell any of
my students that are at this level to go
full force on you need to have really
good
like you gotta have really good client
skills you got to be bringing very
consistent clients you have to have a
really good emergency fund to weather
out three four months of no clients
right and sometimes you might have three
months with no clients but then you do
get a client but you're not getting paid
until like another month two months
after that right like
it's too much of a grind and i i just
wouldn't want that for folks and so
um
i'm never gonna present alternative
paths i want you to get a job first and
then i want you to freelance on the side
and then when things are going really
well and you feel like it's the time's
right then go full bore on freelancing
yeah not that yeah exactly not that it
can't be done
it's just
it's a way more difficult road
just got paid by a client who owed since
january it's real on these streets folks
anthony said freelance for about three
years when i first learned to code it
def it's definitely harder that way when
you're saying it's totally correct just
in case someone wants to hear from
someone uh who did it exactly i feel
that
all right give me that healthcare
exactly i love your i love your name
panic at the discord
that's such a good dave
already folks
went to a js meeting last night end up
eating meta met up meeting four other
hundred devs that's awesome it's like
the spider-man meme
all right
i had a client hold a payment for 11
months of 70k due to some internal
budget stuff really screaming out here
that's wild sorry to hear that brushless
all right folks networking comes back
this week meaning that i want one coffee
chat this week
i want one coffee chat last year last
week for a coffee chat i'm asking you
this week for a coffee chat
right
i want you to i want you to get that
free that networking coming back and
soon we're going to be doing our
networking in a targeted way meaning
that we're going to be just trying to
network with folks that are on our hit
list let's get comfortable with it again
let's try and get these connections
going again right let's keep it pushing
all right use the sheet folks use the
sheet if you're not keeping track of
your networking in the sheet you're
messing up if you're not keeping track
of your hit list in the sheet you're
messing up get the sheet execution point
sheet and chat if you need it
all right
the checklist i'm starting to ask for
all the professional links today i know
some folks are able to finish everything
so go ahead and
take the weekend to finish it but i want
your professional stuff done by next
tuesday we got to get the the the link
some marinating we need we need the
lincoln to start you know getting the
recruiters to see it right like we need
all these things done so we can enter
into the hunt appropriately
remember you should be pushing every day
you should be doing a code wars every
day and you should be pushing that code
wars to github every single day
because our recruiters love those green
squares they do they do they do and we
know the benefits of spaced repetition
we know that we're doing a code wars
every day by the time we're in the
interview we're gonna be lean mean
interviewing machines
so please please you only listen to me
with one thing just do a code wars every
day and push it to github that your
github looks
looks sweet
you're getting that practicing you're
getting that space repetition in you're
getting that pattern recognition and by
the time you're ready to interview
you're ready i'm telling you folks other
people ain't doing this definitely not
for as long as we do it
i'm just a simple man cultivating my
green square patch
all my links are gifts now hey let's go
turn up
all right submitting your work uh i
asked you for your freelancing
information today uh freelancing was due
on tuesday so you all got two extra days
i want to hear if you got a client if
you got a volunteer or if you got a open
source contribution um so
fill that out so i know what you got um
later on i'm going to ask for like the
links to everything but i kind of i want
to get a pulse on
where you're at what you did and then
i'll ask for like submitting everything
i want this to be quick and easy
and then i'll ask for all the actual
details later
same thing for submitting your work
there's a lot of stuff that was due
today in terms of the 100 hours project
in terms of your professional checklist
so make sure today you fill out that
that
link i put both the links are here in
the slides to this but they are also in
the um
in the discord so on our follow
materials channel you can find all these
links as well
congrats archer that's huge
and please remember right we said this
already but we know that space
repetition is the key folks we know the
space repetition is the thing that's
going to help us get jobs keeping up
with your anki keeping up with your code
words keeping up with the homework
all this stuff becomes even more
important because we're ready to get
serious we're about to enter into the
hunt we're getting prepared for the hunt
we're sharpening our poles
we're grabbing our shields but we're
getting ready and so we need to be
getting ready so that by the time we're
interviewing we're good to go
[Laughter]
some petty patties were trying to tell
us that green square back dating was
cheating don't hate the player hate the
game yeah i think that's a very clear
don't hate to play hate the game
situation
i i really committed i committed to
doing 100 days in a row
and uh there were a few days where i had
to change my
my time to
hawaii i didn't i didn't do like the
commit thing i just i just changed the
date and time on my computer to hawaii
because i missed it by a couple hours so
i don't know i i'm gonna count it like i
said i'm gonna buy any means necessary
type of person if you if you're if you
are a recruiter that can dig through my
get history and figure out uh that i
backfilled some dates well you're just
impressed me that's that's for sure
all right
tonight folks we get into the back end
we become full stack web developers we
combine our front end skills with some
back end skills but before we get to the
back end
we have some things to cover
and so
we're going to start off with a few
things that are going to help us better
understand
where the back end comes to play that
helps us better understand
like what we're doing when it comes time
to the back end so give me a chance to
work through some examples tonight
they're gonna help us see some other
really key things that we need right
before jumping into the back end and
know that a lot of these examples are
just examples i'm going to use some
words very loosely tonight i can already
feel the nerds shaking and quaking uh
leon that's not asynchronously on that's
not that's not secret this is not what
if that's not
that's not the definition oh all right i
can already hear them i can hear them
you hear them
you hear them you you can hear like the
there's like a sound i don't know if you
can hear it
all right i think i got to talk while i
do it
there's look at that sound it's like the
the the fist clenching and the teeth
like uh and they do a little shake right
i can hear it i can hear a little bit
because i'm gonna use some words and i'm
gonna use them loosely because we're
here to freaking learn folks
we're here to learn we'll worry about
the nerd stuff later on we're here to
learn so we need some words loosely give
me some room here let's stretch out
let's take
deep breath all right folks we got this
we're here to learn all right
and so we're going to start off by
delivering some papers this evening
and i am going to take on the role of a
paper delivery person
and we're going to deliver some papers
now some of you are like leon what the
heck are papers
uh well papers
are
news well almost normally news that are
put on
to sheets of dead trees
so we used to chop down trees
and we would turn those trees into like
compressed sheets
and then people would write on them and
then print on them like they would they
would put like um
like ink
what is ink you know like like what a
pen is the stuff inside of a pen they
would put that all over the sheet and
then
like your grandparents would read that
every morning so it's kind of like it's
kind of like reddit but on dead trees
so that's what papers are cool all right
so we're gonna be a person that delivers
these papers because every morning
someone used to to drop off a paper at
your house and that's how you read the
news so instead of like logging on to
your computer you would just like go to
your front door and you would like open
it and boom there you go boomer stuff
exactly
all right so let's deliver some papers
now
what do we want if we're going to be a
good paper delivery person we probably
we probably need to do something
well
and so we could be a paper delivery
person
that we get on our bike we have all our
papers with us
we ride our bike to the first house
we throw the newspaper at the door and
then we wait
we wait for them to kind of like wake up
put their pajamas back on
that come down the steps to open the
front door they grab their newspaper and
then we get back on our bike we we
hustle to the next door we throw the
paper at it and then we wait
eventually they get up they have their
breakfast
they come to the front door
they open it they grab their paper and
then we're like oh we got to get the
next house this would be a really
inefficient paper route right we'd call
this synchronous for now where we are
kind of just like waiting for each
person to get their paper
before moving on to the next house right
what we would want
is for ourselves as a paper delivery
person to be asynchronous meaning that
we would throw the paper at the door and
then we move on to the next house
right now the cool thing is that when we
have a
synchronous process
there are some things that we get that
are perks right there are some perks to
having a synchronous process where we're
throwing at the door and then waiting
before we move on to the next one what
are some perks that we might get
we might get tips maybe uh we could be
pretty certain that they got their paper
right like we we saw that we we threw it
we saw they eventually got it so we
could see that they eventually got their
paper right but that that benefit that
we get is vastly
vastly
uh
not worth it
we probably value the idea of serving a
thousand people and losing a paper or
two then serving five people a day and
that's it right and so there's this idea
like we could be waiting or we could be
just doing our business and hitting each
door and moving on to the next one now
javascript as a language
is single threaded
and it is synchronous aka can only do
one thing at a time
and so it has to wait
it's going to do one thing and it has to
wait until that thing is done and then
it moves on to the next thing
by single thread it i mean that there is
only one newspaper delivery person on
this route right we could have a
language that waits and we could fix the
problem by having multiple papal
delivery people running around the
neighborhood but javascript's not like
that
javascript is synchronous meaning it
blocks like it waits for the person to
come get the newspaper before it moves
on to the next house and it's single
thread it means there there's only one
paper delivery person
right we could eventually have languages
that are multi-threaded where we have a
bunch of newspaper delivery folks but
javascript's not like that
right so we have one paper delivery
person and they're synchronous meaning
they wait
and so that makes javascript
maybe not the best language ever
but
it also raises a lot of questions
or maybe it makes it a great language
we're going to figure that out
so if javascript is synchronous
right meaning that it has to wait before
moving on to the next thing that it
wants to do
right
has to wait for it to move on to the
next thing that we wanted to do
how do we do stuff like make api
requests
or how do we do stuff and then keep
scrolling
right how do we keep clicking like it
just seems like this language would just
hold us back
right like if if we
are on instagram and we like a photo we
can immediately start scrolling
but you're like leon you just told me
that javascript is synchronous it's
single threaded meaning that we have to
wait we have to wait for
us to like the photo for all that stuff
to happen before we can keep scrolling
but that's that's not our experience
when we're using javascript when we
click on stuff we can still do other
stuff in the browser it's not
it's not waiting we're we're we're not
we're not seeing that we're not seeing
what javascript should be doing right we
know that javascript is single threaded
it's synchronous it should have to wait
for something to finish before it does
the next thing
jason derulo hey thank you for the gift
it subs thank you for being here
so
if javascript is single threaded
if it is synchronous
how do we do all this stuff that we're
just so used to doing in the browser
click events uh fancy stuff in the dom
like how are we able to do all this
stuff and not just have to sit there
waiting counting our time before we move
on to the next thing well
things should block
we should have to wait
but they don't
because of the environment in which we
are running javascript
javascript is single threaded
it should block it is synchronous it
should have to wait for one thing to
finish before moving on to the next one
but because of the environment in which
we run javascript
we don't have to
and so when i say the environment i
don't i don't mean like this like the
earth
i mean
this
yeah baby
this is what i'm talking about
take a look
talking about the browser baby exactly
our javascript
is running in the browser
and since it is running in the browser
we get to do some stuff that javascript
on its own
would not be able to do
javascript is single threaded it is
synchronous it should block but since
we're running it in the environment that
is our browser like chrome firefox
safari since that's where we're running
it we get to do a lot of stuff that we
shouldn't be able to do
our js is running in the browser
and since it's running in the browser
the browser gives us a bunch of apis
right it gives us a bunch of simple
interfaces that we can use to do really
complex stuff
right the browser gives us a bunch of
apis that we can use that are
asynchronous
and that can enable us to keep looking
at our cute cat photos while certain
operations are being processed
asynchronously so
javascript is not an asynchronous
language but it gives us when we run it
in the browser
we get access to some apis and the
browser apis can do all that
asynchronous stuff just to be clear it
is not javascript doing this stuff
we are making the request that the
browser do this stuff that javascript
can't do
so you're saying leon the browser gives
us some apis
uh let's look at some of these common
browser apis and this is something i did
maybe 10 years ago
and
i was like all right so hold on wait a
minute all right hold on hold on
so javascript is single threaded it's
synchronous it should block it shouldn't
be able to do anything like we shouldn't
be able to like
click on something and then immediately
start scrolling we should have to wait
for that click to finish and then start
moving so you're telling me that
javascript can't do that by itself
but since it's running in the browser
it gets access
to a bunch of apis
and those apis are going to do all the
heavy lifting for us tell me about these
apis
tell me tell me what tell me what what
what the browser can do for us and so
we can look at this huge list of web
apis that since we're running javascript
in the browser we get access
gotta clean my glasses real quick hold
on
y'all see that
y'all see that did you see it
because something happened and i'm not
i'm not feeling too good about it
let's take a look hold on
dom
well i gotta turn on my demo pro here
hmm
all right hold on leon hold on hold on
hold on wait wait wait wait hold on
so
javascript single threaded synchronous
should block
it's able to do some stuff because we're
running it in the browser because the
browser gives us access to some web apis
and the web apis do all the heavy
lifting for us
one of the apis we have access to is the
dom
the document object model
and so when i read that in the list
i had to go look this up
i'm like wait a minute
the dom is an api
and then i read i believe this this is
like on stack overflow from like 10
years ago this is what i read
because i i saw that on the list i'm
like wait a minute i've been using the
dom the whole time i've been writing
javascript what do you mean that it's a
it's a web api
hold on so i read this on stack overflow
like 10 years ago
the dom okay the document object model
is essentially the api one uses to
manipulate an html document
usually
using javascript
excuse me he got got we got
hold on i gotta read this again the dom
is essentially the api one uses to
manipulate an html document
usually using javascript
okay
so this means
that the dom
is something that the browser gives us
access to
javascript
doesn't have the ability to access the
dom on its own
the browser is the thing that enables us
to access the dom
which means that technically
the browser
could
give any language the ability to access
the dom
and it kind of happened
if you went back to the beginning of the
browser wars
netscape navigator created
javascript well the person that was that
there were javascript and then microsoft
was like screw that we're going to write
i think it was like jscript or
livescript something like that and then
firefox was like nah we can't do this we
gotta have like one like unified thing
and then they came in to like and then
we had the browser wars and eventually
after this huge hot mess we had the
ecmascript council and the aquascript
council's like hold on this internet
thing is getting away from us
all of our browsers need to be on the
same page we need to be exposing the
same apis so that when folks are writing
javascript it works in the different
browsers
because
the dom
is not something that comes with
javascript
i literally remember screaming like what
the [__] it's like this was like
starting to like make sense in my brain
i just remember like saying like what
the [__] like i was just i was i'd
push
and so i was like all right
document.queryselector
right document.queryselector
is not javascript
if we look at like javascript
like the language and we look at the
language and everything that it comes
with
query select there's nowhere to be found
we only get access to the dom and the
document and all the methods that are
associated with it like query selector
query selector all because we are
running our javascript in the browser
if our javascript was not running in the
browser we wouldn't have access to dom
document query selector all of that
stuff
has nothing to do with javascript
it's because we are running our
javascript in the browser that we get
access to all those goodies
so yeah
javascript can do a lot of the blocking
stuff
because the browser is handling all
handing all that blocking stuff
right
it's handing all that stuff over to the
browser
right it can do all this blocking stuff
because it's handing it off to the
browser and the browser it makes sense
because the browser is a com is a
program that's running on our computer
right the browser is a program running
on a computer it can access our cpu
maybe access our gpu right it can be
multithreaded it can do all this
wonderful stuff so we're handing
these asynchronous tasks
off to the browser
via web apis
right
they're doing their thing
and eventually they're going to
[Music]
respond
and so this is where we get into a
little bit of a sticky situation
javascript
is single threaded
it is a synchronous language it should
block
but we just found out the reason why
we're able to do all these asynchronous
things like click and not have to sit
there and wait for a minute before we
get our response to move on
is because we're handing off all that
asynchronous stuff to the browser the
browser does all those asynchronous
stuff things for us javascript keeps
running we're handing off all that
asynchronous stuff to the browser and
eventually that browser has to respond
with the stuff
and so the way that we handle the
responses that come back
as the result of these web apis are
things called callbacks
promises and eventually async await
now there's a lot of other really more
complicated stuff at play here there's
things called a call stack there's
callback queue web api event loop like
the stuff that really makes this happen
but we're gonna save that for tuesday
we'll save all that for tuesday right
there's mechanisms for how this works
that's all this like fancy stuff we'll
save that for tuesday
cool
so we're gonna see some of this in
practice by delivering some papers
but let's just go back a quick second
here
javascript is running
in a browser
which means it gets access to a bunch of
these web apis
things like the dom and all the other
crap that we see here
that the browser can do for us
so javascript tries to do something
and it just hands it off to the browser
and keeps running because it's single
threaded and synchronous
so javascript will keep running
handing off all this stuff to the
browser the browser does all this stuff
for us and eventually responds
so for us to understand how javascript
is running in the browser we have to
understand how we're handing off these
requests and getting responses it's just
like any api that we've done before
where we've made a request and got a
response but instead of it going to the
dog ceo api or instead of it going to
the cocktail database api it's going to
the api that the browser has we're
making a request to the browser the
browser's doing some stuff for us and
we're getting a response
back
so why do we need javascript
because it's the programming language
that we're using to do all these things
it just so happens that we can hand off
a lot of the heavy lifting for certain
things to the browser we still need
functions variables loops conditionals
we still need a language to have some
sort of inheritance model like prototype
inheritance we still need all that stuff
to do the heavy lifting it's just that
javascript
is a language
that by itself is single-threaded
synchronous and can't do a lot of the
things that we just think are actually
javascript they're not they're actually
javascript running in the environment
that is called the browser
which might lead you to start thinking
about something further down the line
here some things might might start
clicking for you right but we'll get
there in time
cool
so javascript running in the environment
that is the browser
since we're running javascript in the
browser we get access to a bunch of
these web apis we just saw that the dom
is one of those web apis what the [__]
what the [__]
there is no such thing
as
document.queryselect like in the
language that is javascript we only get
access to that since we are running it
in the browser
yeah
and different said front-end
functionality these apis are still
syntactically javascript they're just
not native to the spec exactly they're
they're not like part of the core
language
all right
and you give me some freedom here give
me some freedom here right brain is
broken i'm tripping i hope so
so we saw that document.queryselector is
just a web api it's not actually part of
the javascript language
oh and it always has been
i feel disrespected
so js can do a lot of this blocking
stuff that is a language it shouldn't be
able to do because we're handing that
off to the browser we're like making
these web api requests to the browser
and the browser's like i got you and
they're going to do all this stuff for
us
now
we talked about this idea
that um
we said that
that is usually using javascript
right
and in the beginning we talked about
this idea that well wait a minute
usually
so that means other folks have tried
or can still and they still try to stay
use other languages to run in the
browser to get access to the dom the
ecosystem is just so mature that a lot
of times it's just not fast enough but
there are some things that are coming
down the pipeline now web assembly stuff
like that it's just it's always been a
speed thing you can write python that
interacts with the dom it's just not as
fast things like pi scripts stuff like
that um
it's just not it's just not as fast we
were built to work with javascript in
the browser it'll take a long time
before it kind of catches up um
cool
so we're saying usually but this
actually i this is one of my favorite
things
right it's one of my favorite things
that um
[Music]
that like when it started to click for
me i made sense
so back in the day
you go back 10 years we didn't actually
write javascript we wrote something else
like it was the really popular thing to
write we didn't write javascript we
wrote something else
anybody know
yeah we wrote jquery
wrote jquery
and jquery
provided one really important thing does
anyone know what jquery actually gave us
anybody know
it gave us cross browser compatibility
you could write your javascript once
and it would work in all the different
browsers
so that leads to a question
why would the javascript i write
run differently in each browser
why would the javascript i write run
differently in each browser
different apis each browser was giving
us different apis so the javascript that
we wrote it might work in one browser
but the api might behave differently in
a different one or they might not give
it to us at all
and so
we were trying to write javascript but
javascript only works because it was
running in the browser but if the
browser was different it might implement
javascript in a different way it might
not give you access to the things that
you need it and so we had jquery jquery
came in and saved the day you would
write javascript once
and it would work across all of the
browsers
right
but now we have the ecmascript council
right books came together we had folks
that set up a better standards a web
standard that we got all the different
browsers to agree to all the different
companies to come together and say all
right here's how we're going to
implement javascript in the browser here
are the core web apis that we're all
going to agree to and that's why we
don't really need jquery anymore we
don't need jquery to figure out how to
take the javascript we wrote and make it
work within all the browsers because all
the browsers kind of play well and nice
together they kind of all agree to this
standard
right and so as all the companies came
together as all the browsers came
together as the ecmascript console kind
of matured we don't really need jquery
anymore because the biggest thing it
gave us was cross browser compatibility
and maybe a slightly simpler syntax
and so yes now that's where es6 comes
from ecmascript 2015 2016 forward is
where we start to see all the browsers
really really starting to play nice
all kind of taking the same javascript
and making it run well with their web
apis and so it really did change the
game but i hope that you understand that
all right javascript is a language
it's running in the browser and since
it's running in the browser it gets
access to all these web apis and back in
the day different browsers gave you
different apis or they did things
differently or they just weren't the
same and so the javascript you would
write would break across all these
different languages so we had jquery
jquery was written to figure out how to
handle all these exceptions in all the
different browsers and it made your life
a lot easier but now that all the
browsers kind of are working together we
have a set of standard apis that they're
all working with we get the ability for
us to write javascript once and to work
in all the browsers
so we can make our own dom well if you
started your own browser
you could create your own
dom api that would handle things
differently you could do that
yeah
why do we still use jquery then i don't
think really too many people still do i
think maybe there's a lot of legacy code
that might use it um but it's redundant
exactly it's redundant now we we don't
need it for the cross browser
compatibility anymore so like one of the
biggest things it gave us is no really
longer like necessary
cool
all right so
we have this idea that javascript which
is normally a blocking language is
handing off all these important
requests to the browser
but eventually the browser needs to
respond back to javascript so we can use
the responses
and so what do we do to listen for those
responses like what what what are the
tools we can use so that as these web
apis respond we can do stuff and so
that's going to take us through
callbacks it's going to take us through
promises and eventually the newer async
awaits syntax so when we come back from
break
we're going to jump into delivering some
more papers i'm going to give you really
clear examples on callbacks promises
async await we're going to talk about
all these wonderful things that enable
us to hand stuff off to the web apis
that enable us to get responses make
javascript run in the browser we're
gonna get really comfortable with that
and then we're gonna take ourselves to
the back
end
oh boy i hope your mind's blown a little
bit
i hope that you like the idea that like
document and query selector aren't
actually javascript they're web apis i
hope that just like ruptured your mind
for a bit
we'll be back in five minutes if you're
new around these parts we love to take
breaks at the top of the hour
we're here to be uh we're here for the
long haul folks if you're able get up
move around hydrate
walk the dogs kiss some babies stretch
look out the the window let your eyes
focus on something that's not the screen
and we'll be back in five folks really
excited to kind of jump into these call
backs promises async await and then a
sweet sweet sweet back end baby
do
[Music]
arts welcome you can do exclamation
point 100 dabs to learn everything about
the boot camp
uh we do have a two plus extension on
the timer
and a hydrate
oh snap thank you for the hydration and
we gotta add two minutes to the timer
i didn't see it
as this goes to zero we'll add two more
minutes
thank you android thank you snap
all right we're adding two more minutes
android x117 added two minutes to the
timer
more time to help my brand a
in different this is one of my favorite
classes too
thank you for saying that yes i think
this is up there this is top three for
me
so much amazing content do you wish you
were creating in the error of the blog
when it was all searchable and easier to
access
nah my goal is to get folks jobs
i think this is the ideal format for
that i think there's plenty of like
books or tutorials you can read i think
there's something really important about
being like live with a cohort of other
folks is there self-study community
studying right i think that's uh
i think that's really important so i
think i think it's the right time it's
the right moment
i do wish i was better at like making
the content into other content i still
have time for it
the grind is really creeped from getting
burnt out i plan out my days
i plan in leisure time
planning time with my wife
yeah
i make sure i don't go in my weeks like
an accident really does help with
burnout
i take breaks when i need it
[Music]
all right folks come on back come on
back
does your wife know that dom is in
javascript
get that to ourselves
all right folks come on back
thank you android for the the two minute
extension
while needed we'll need it
all right
that's awesome cd glad you liked it
alrighty so we talked about this idea
that we're handing off all the heavy
stuff to the browser
but eventually the browser needs to like
return with the with like the response
right like we tell it to go do all this
fancy stuff we need to get the response
back
right and so let's talk about how we can
handle responses
by delivering some papers
so
i have in today's starter code if you
need the starter code of course always
on our discord follow materials channel
you'll see it i have this lovely
starter code here inside of the of the
async practice
this is what i'm going to be using to
run stuff in the browser and so i'm just
going to go ahead and uncomment it
you can just copy and paste from the
from the slides if you want you can just
watch me there's no need for you to like
type along with this i'm just trying to
show you some really interesting tidbits
here so
i'm gonna uncomment this and then i'm
gonna open this in my browser
so that i have
this open and i'm just going to keep
using this file that's open in the
browser
all right so
we can see in the slides that we have a
traditional
a traditional kind of three functions
each function console logs
console logs console logs and then we
call each function house one house two
house three
if we open up the browser here
we look in the console
we see what we expect right we see what
we expect
paper delivered to house one paper
delivered the house two paper delivered
to house three that seems pretty
standard because
we know that javascript is a synchronous
language it's going to run this function
then this function
and then this function
and we're going to go on with our lives
right pretty standard functions now
let's use a web api like set timeout
that's right folks i said it right
let's use a web api
like set timeout
set timeout and set interval are not
part of the javascript specification
it's just that most environments include
them like pretty much every browser and
node
so set timeout set interval actually
aren't part of javascript
we only have access to them because
we're running it in the browser and this
makes sense
this makes sense
if javascript is synchronous if it is
blocking
how could it have set timeout
or set interval that kind of like wait
some time and then do something
right like how this it's just not
possible with the way javascript is
built as a language
it has to be a web api we have to hand
that off to someone something else
right
like it has to it's just not something
that's built into
javascript
it's just the language can't support
that
but since we're running javascript in
the browser the environment where we're
running it gives us access to it
blocking it just means that we we have
to wait until everything finishes before
moving on to the next thing
right so like when we were the newspaper
delivery person we threw the the paper
at the door and we waited for the person
to pick up the paper and go back inside
that's blocking javascript blocks
whatever it does it has to wait until
it's done before it moves on to the next
thing
so something like set timeout or set
interval can't exist in javascript
because javascript can't wait
it has to keep moving
right
cool
you got me
this is live footage of me figuring out
right
of me figuring out
that set timeouts at interval are
actually not part of javascript
cool
so let's let's get a little funky with
it so here's another set of code here we
have
the house one that looks normal we
delivered to house one house two is a
little bit different we have a set
timeout that's gonna wait three seconds
right it's gonna wait three seconds
and then we have our house three which
is console log house three so if we run
house one house two house three what do
we expect to happen like what do we
expect to see
in the browser what's your guess like
what are we gonna see in the in what
order are we gonna see the houses
all right let's go ahead and run that so
i'm going to go ahead and go to my
javascript here i'm going to comment out
the old code here
and i'm going to uncomment the next the
next batch
all right so here we go we can see that
the second house two has a set timeout
where wait three seconds house one house
two house three let's go back to our
browser and refresh it
all right we see house one run house
three run and then after three seconds
we see house two pop up and that makes
sense right
we know that house one's gonna run
automatically super it's gonna run
we know that house two has a set timeout
that it's gonna take three seconds but
this javascript wait hell no it moves
right on to house three
so we had one three two
now
let's try something a little bit more
funky
let's go ahead
and reduce the set timeout
from three
three seconds to zero seconds here we
were saying wait three seconds so it
makes sense that it went one three two
but when we get rid of the weight what
do we expect what's the order
we got rid of the weight why we're not
gonna wait anymore we got rid of the
weight let's go ahead and run it
we're gonna get rid of the weight
we're gonna get rid of the weight we're
gonna change it from 3000
to zero
we're gonna save it and we're gonna
refresh
what
hold on did i save it
i saved it there's no longer a wait
folks we went from three seconds to zero
seconds
i'm refreshing
one three two
gotti
so hold on let's think about this
with a three second wait
we had the same result one three two
as with a no weight there's no weight
here
but we still got one three two
why why why did we get got
why did we get why did we get got
set timeout gets handed off to the what
that time gets handed set timeout gets
handed off to what
yeah it's a browser api so that that
request even though it's no way it's
zero seconds it still gets handed off to
the browser
and then what does javascript keep doing
i do like the chris farley
right what does javascript keep doing
i hate it
it just keeps on trucking folks right it
doesn't care
handing off the browser boom gonna keep
going kool-aid man right like it just
doesn't matter
so we have the lovely
house one that gets console logged we
hand this off to the browser and
javascript's like choo choo and just
keeps going
immediately goes to to run house three
so we see three
and then eventually
eventually
the browser
responds
the browser api responds
right and so that's why
right
that's why
even though there is no wait
there is still the handing off
of the set timeout to the browser
of which javascript does not wait for
it just keeps moving
so that's why we do
one three and then eventually the
browser responds and we see two
because even though it's zero weight
there's still some time that it takes to
go to the browser and back
javascript just tossed the paper and ran
exactly
now the reason or the mechanism behind
this and like how this works is
something called the event loop and so
we're going to get to that well i forgot
to change this to tuesday so on tuesday
we're going to see right
we're going to see
that on tuesday how the event loop
handles all of these events right we
handed off this set timeout this api
request we hand this off to something
called the event loop and that has to
run and eventually respond
right and so what i want to spend some
time tonight talking about
is how do we
handle
those responses
what if it's payday
and i want to get paid by each house
before moving on to the next one
right
i want to get paid by each house
before moving on to the next one
so
we know that javascript don't want to
wait
we just saw that
javascript was like choo choo blew right
past it
right went right on to the next house
i want to be able to wait and make sure
i get it's payday
i want to make sure i'm getting paid by
each house
right before i move on to the next one
so how can i wait
well
i only want to move on to the third
house
after the second house has paid me and i
only want to move on from the first
house i mean i only moved on to the
second house after the first house just
paid me i'm gonna get paid by the first
house then the second house and then the
third house and so on right
so the real world would be like i don't
want to keep running my code until i get
the response back from my api
right like we're talking about getting
paid you're like well you know like
we're talking about getting paid but
what i really the real world would be is
like all right
i want to make a request to an api
and then i want to run some code after i
get the response back
i don't want the code to run
until i get the response back
right that would suck like if we if we
didn't get the response back from the
api we try to run the code our code
would just never work it's like it's
like when you make a click event
but you put the get the value out of the
input outside of the click event so when
you go to click on it the value is
always empty because you just you just
move too quickly right same thing's
happening here where we want our code to
take its time we want to get responses
back
before we move on but we know javascript
don't play like that so we need some
things that help us do that
cool
the thing that we used to do this
the old school way were called callbacks
callbacks were how we could wait for a
response and then do something else
right
way back in the day we would use
callbacks that would enable us to wait
for something to happen and then do
something else right there'll be so many
things that we want to
hear back from the web apis right and
then do something and so the way we did
this was with callbacks
cool
now
to understand how callbacks work and for
all of this we have to understand that
javascript does actually enable us to do
something pretty neat
in javascript you can have a function
that takes another function
as an argument
say one more time
you can have a function
that takes another function
as an argument
and we call that a higher order function
a function that takes another function
as an argument is called a higher order
function now
you have seen this
a bajillion times
right
you've seen this a bajillion times you
have seen
every single person here that's been
caught up with javascript has done ad
event listener
and in ad event listener we had a method
or a function right
that took in another function as an
argument
so here's at event listener which is our
function it took in two arguments it
took in a click
as an argument and it took in another
function as an argument and what would
happen
is that once this function ran it would
eventually run this function as well
so add event listener is a higher
order
function
you've seen this bazillion times all a
high order function is a function that
takes another function as an argument
now
what do we call that argument that's
being passed in what do we call that
function that's being passed in well the
function that we call
the function that's being passed in we
call it a callback
so all the callback is is the function
that has been passed in
as the argument in a higher order
function
you've seen this a bazillion times
you've been using higher order functions
here's add event listener it takes in a
function that function that we took in
as the argument we call that a call back
so higher order functions just a
function that takes in a function the
function that gets taken in we call that
a callback
now callbacks really aren't a thing
like it's just a convention it's like i
think it's like it's like a thing that
we do in javascript but it's not really
like it's not really like something it's
just a convention
cool
so let's get paid
and now that we understand
that there are something called
callbacks
where callbacks can enable us
to wait until we get a response
let's see them in action i want to show
you callbacks and how callbacks enable
our javascript to wait
and get a response and then do stuff
right because remember we're trying to
use javascript which is a blocking
language that is synchronous that we
want to do all this stuff and not wait
while callbacks enabled us to actually
wait before we did other stuff because i
want to get paid
i want to get paid by the first house
and then the second house and then the
third house and i ain't moving on until
i get paid
all right
so here
is a way that we could make this
happen here is my house1 function
and then i am calling my house 2
function
and you see that house 2 takes in
house 3.
without really having to dig too deep
what does that make house 2
yeah
that makes house 2
a higher order function
and that makes house 3
a what
a callback exactly so house 2 is our
higher order function here and house 3
is our callback
now some cool stuff's going to happen
here
here we have
the same set timeout that we saw before
we had the same set timeout that we saw
before that's going to wait three
seconds
so if we're calling house one then house
two and house three
we would expect to still see that one
three
and then the two
but because we are using a callback
we should still see one two three so
let's see it and then we'll explain why
let's go back and take a look i'm going
to
i'm going to comment out my old code i'm
going to move on to the next example
here
we have our lovely callback example here
i'm going to go ahead and save it
and then we're going to run it and make
sure it actually works
refresh
boom one
we wait the three seconds house two
house three let me show that again let
me show that again i'm gonna show it
because it's really important that you
see it it's gonna refresh
house one instantly three seconds later
house two and then house three
one more time one more time then we're
gonna look at the code house one
instantly
then three seconds two three
so before
we saw our code jumping one three two
when we had the
set timeout but now we are still able to
have the set timeout but wait before we
move on to
the third
house so let's take a look at how that's
actually happening
so here we have our normal house1
function so there's no guessing about
that we call it it console logs house
one
then we're gonna run our house to
function but we're passing in house 3
as an argument
so when we pass in house 3 as an
argument
it gets passed in
wherever we see callback that's no
longer call back
that's just
house
three
right we've passed house three in
as a function that we're passing in
so whenever we see callback it's
actually house three so if we run this
if we run this
house one runs like normal we see uh
delivered the house one in the console
then
house two runs
and house two has a set timeout where we
wait three seconds
we wait three seconds and then we
console log
house 2 delivered and then what do we
immediately do after we console log
house 2.
after we console log house 2 what do we
immediately do
we run the callback in this case we run
house three
we run house three so
if we watch this house one runs like
normal we see that first console log
then house two runs like normal but we
did pass something in
we did pass something in as a as an
argument here
so house when we saw printed to the cons
like normal after three seconds
house two prints to the console
and then finally
the callback runs we can see that it's
running because it has the parentheses
there
and then once that callback runs we're
really running
house 3.
then we would see paper delivered to
house three in the console
so we can still have our set timeout
but have a way of waiting before we move
on to the next house let's see it and
then we'll explain it one more time
so let's refresh
house one instantly wait three seconds
house two house three
right
so if we look at it we ran house one
that's normal we get the console logged
over to house three but now we don't
want to move on to the third house until
we get paid from the second we know the
second house they take their time
they're always slow getting their wallet
out they always take some time to get me
the money they always want to talk about
what they have for breakfast they want
to tell me about the flowers that they
planted right they just take forever so
i can't move on to the third house
right
until i get paid from the second but
javascript doesn't like doing that
right
javascript wants to keep on trucking and
keep on moving so how do we use set
timeout and wait
well we have a callback
so here we run our house to just like
normal
and we pass in our call back function
so when house two runs right when we run
this function house two runs the set
timeout does its thing
it takes a full three seconds
right does a full three seconds
once the set timeout is done
it console logs house two
and then
it triggers the callback
all right and then it triggers the
callback
boom
now the funny thing is
you have seen this so many times
one of the most common questions i get
i'm going to comment this out one of the
most common questions i get
is when we do something like this
dot query selector
let's always do that
pre-selector
uh
button
and we do add event listener
click
and then bob
then down here we have our function
called bob
the question i always get is leon
why are we not putting
parentheses
right here
right why aren't we doing
parentheses bob that's how we call
functions
right
that's how we call functions
but no
this would
invoke it immediately bob would run and
it wouldn't wait for the click
it's a callback and we don't need the
parentheses because somewhere in our
code
is something that looks like this
somewhere in our code is this idea that
we're passing in bob as a callback and
somewhere in the code we're going to run
bob after the event has triggered
right we don't see it because we didn't
actually write add event listener
but somewhere in ad event listeners code
is the running or the executing of the
callback
we can put our smurf on the block and
they're they're chilling all day on the
block but once they hear the click
the callback fires
how do we sit there waiting all day long
is because the callback
right we can't we can't put the
parentheses here because it wouldn't
wait bob would execute immediately
right it would happen immediately
but
since we know that somewhere deep in the
ad event listener code is a callback we
know that once the click is heard
there's going to be somewhere where the
callback gets executed
we just don't see it because we didn't
write at event listener but that's
something that's built into
cool
so that's callbacks callbacks enable us
to actually wait
callbacks enable us to
to to be able
to have things get handed off to the web
apis
wait for those web apis to come back and
then do something
the the problem however
that we're going to see very quickly is
that callbacks can kind of get out of
hand let's see let's see callbacks
getting out of hand
all right
we saw that our callback fired when the
async task or the other function was
done so we waited for the set timeout to
finish and then the callback fired right
we're able to do
those asynchronous stuff that's being
handed off to the browser that request
that set time off got handed off to the
browser remember javascript is running
in the environment that is the browser
we handed that request off to the
browser the browser did its thing
once we got the response
then the callback fired so we were able
to do all of this asynchronous stuff
with a language that is not asynchronous
because we had callbacks
cool
so let's get paid by everyone i want to
get paid by house one then move on the
house two get paid then move on the
house three get paid and so i want to go
ahead
right i want to go ahead
i want to go ahead and get paid by each
person i want to get paid by house one
then move on house two then get move on
the house three and so i simplified the
syntax a little bit here um instead of
having to do like
the the calling of the set timeout i
just nested each of my set timeouts so
what we're going to notice here
is that we have our route set timeout in
house one
and then after five seconds
we'll see the console log and then we
have
a nested callback
this this set timeout will run
right because it's nested and then once
that four seconds is up we'll have this
other nested callback
it'll run after three seconds and so
we're just gonna we're just to simplify
the syntax a little bit here instead of
having to do like function passing
callback we could just nest our
callbacks as well
and this this works we can run this code
so let's go ahead and run it just so we
can see it
boom go over here and run it
and we'll wait we'll wait the five
seconds
house one
then we'll wait
the four seconds house two then we'll
wait the three seconds house three
right and so
it's a simplified callback it's still
the same idea like still the same idea
but we're just nesting them and i'm this
is for examples i'm not teaching you
like how to use callbacks i'm just
showing you examples here right and so
we nested our callbacks it's working
however
uh this creates a very
very hard to read bit of code
right callbacks are great we can wait
we can do asynchronous stuff we can take
our time
right we could take our time
and then once once stuff happens we do
the next thing
but um
this is
this is hard to read
this is hard for like us to work with
other developers on and we refer to this
passionately as call back hell
this is called the pyramid of doom
right as you start nesting all your
callbacks and this is what we did like
this works this is if we were waiting
for asynchronous stuff to happen and
then we wanted to wait like in back in
the day this is what we had to do we
built out this pyramid of doom it was
horrible it was disgusting we referred
to it as call back hell but it worked
but we're in hell
so
what if there was a more
readable way
to handle
asynchronous code we know that we're
going to handle so much asynchronous
code so much stuff is getting handed off
to the browser the browser is going to
do its thing and then respond we need to
be able to handle all of these responses
the only mechanism that we've learned so
far that can handle these responses is
literally called the pyramid of doom or
passionately referred to as callback
hell
and this is what developers used for
years
they were like quirks and features like
to try and like fix it
but you still kind of often ran into
callback hell
and so as we were rethinking the newer
versions of javascript we said wait a
minute what if there was a more readable
way to handle our asynchronous code
what if there could be a promise
of a better future
and that's when we got promises
so with the newer versions of javascript
we got this idea called a promise and a
promise revolutionized the way that we
handle the responses from all these
asynchronous tasks
pretty much everything underneath the
hood now in terms of what these web apis
respond with are something called
promises and promise is like a really
weird thing to understand at first but
i'm going to try my best to break it
down
um so all the web apis use promises so
we have to get comfortable with them
and a promise
is simply an object
that represents the eventual completion
or failure of an asynchronous operation
and its value
simply it's an object that may have a
value in the future that's it
it's an object that may have a value in
the feature that feature that's it
just an object we all know what an
object is we know objects come with
properties and methods
and there may be some values tied to
that object
like a placeholder exactly like a
placeholder right like a placeholder
kind of thing but in javascript we only
have so many different types of data
structures so it's an object that may
have a value later on
and the cool thing is if it's an object
our object can have
properties and methods and things tied
to it
and the cool thing about promises is
that there are three
states
pending
fulfilled
and rejected remember we're talking
about an asynchronous task something
that was handed off to the browser
we're letting the browser do and the
browser responds with a promise
that promise can have three states
pending
fulfilled
and rejected
so what i wanted to talk about is kind
of seeing
these kind of three states the pending
the fulfilled the um
the rejected
cool let's go ahead i'm going to take a
look at some code here
let me comment this out
[Music]
all right
here we go
all
i'm right
all right cool all right i show the
order here all right let's take a look
at this here i have some new code
you can see that this code is giving me
a promise
and i'm going to console.log the promise
and then i got some funky stuff down
here that we're not ready for
all right so let's take a look at this
let's save let's open it in the browser
let's take a picot to what's happening
here
all right
we have a promise that we console logged
and we can see that it has a what what
is fulfilled here
we kind of look at it fulfilled kind of
looks like a what
kind of looks like a property
right remember i told you a promise is
just an object
and it can have these different states
right
pending
right we have pending fulfilled rejected
right can have these three states so
promise is really just an object and so
we're looking at it here when we console
log
this new promise look at it what does
where have we seen this new problem
where have we seen this before
this is just a what it's just a class
exactly it's just a class so it's a
class that's doing some heavy lifting
for us we didn't write it
right we didn't write it but it's
something that's built into javascript
now that's been written for us and so
the cool thing is
we can have a promise
right we can have a promise
that has the ability to resolve
or be rejected
or be pending
right
and so
here is me building out a promise
that has the ability to resolve
or be rejected
and so right now
i have set an error equal to false
right so there's no error so there's no
error we expect our promise to resolve
and be fulfilled
so when we look at it here we can see
that the promise that we console log has
been fulfilled
and we wind up seeing something console
logged here
saying the promise has been fulfilled
so
a promise is just an object
that may have a value in the future
and it can have these three states
fulfilled
right we have these three states let's
take a look at them
pending fulfilled or rejected
and so
while i'm waiting for the promise to
resolve or be rejected
it's pending
which means that if javascript needs
something right away think about how
javascript runs
does javascript wait for anything
javascript never waits
but what if it immediately had an object
what if it immediately had an object
that was pending
and eventually that object became
fulfilled or rejected
right so it gets the object right away
but that fulfilled or rejected can take
its time
right it can take its time
and when we build out our promises
we build them out so they can resolve
or reject
and if we look
i'm going to comment out this console
lock here because we don't need to see
it but we have the promise
and then we have these two other values
the then
and catch
then and catch look like what
they are what we've we've learned about
objects we know what they are what are
they
they're methods
so
when a promise resolves
right when a promise resolves and it is
fulfilled
there's no rejection right
what method do you think fires
then
fires beautiful
and if something goes wrong
if is a rejection if something is wrong
the promise is is rejected what do you
think fires
the catch
exactly so we have this idea of a
promise which is an object that can have
a value in the future and the cool thing
is as these promises resolve
we can trigger a then or we can trigger
a catch let's take a look at that
the then
is a method on a promise
that runs after the promise has
resolved
right that's all you need to know we can
go deeper on it but for now
all that then is is a method that runs
after the promise has resolved that's it
that's all we need to worry about
and the cool thing is
is that when the promise
right when the promise when that when
that promise resolves and the then runs
we're passing a value
we're passing a value in as an argument
so as it resolves we can pass in
that resolving
as
data that's being passed into the then
and so when we look at our code we see
this
we see that we have the ability to
resolve or reject and here's what we're
passing in with the resolve at this
point we're just passing like some text
in and so when we go to console log our
data what are we going to console log
what's the data that's being passed in
if this promise resolves
right now as it stands
the text exactly that string promise has
been fulfilled
but if something was to go wrong and for
some reason this was to be rejected
maybe like
if we changed our conditional to true
right so now there is an error so this
if won't run we'll have an else if we
were to save that and go back to our
code
we got the error operation is filed
on line 72. hold on
error operation has failed
line 72
line 72 is our what
our catch
since it did not resolve it was rejected
the catch fired
so then when it resolves
catches when it's rejected and we can
see that here with just a very very very
simple
promise our promises get way more
complex but this very simple one can see
if it resolves well we get the then
and if it
is rejected we get the catch cool
now
you have all seen this before people
freak out when promises come on the
table we all lose our mind we start
running around the room leon what are
you showing me i don't get it come on
now
we've all seen this before
you all have been using promises whether
you knew it or not
ah you got got
cool
with apis
fetch
is an api
that returns a what
fetch is an api that returns a what
the promise
yeah
now
does javascript have the ability to
fetch
no
fetch is uh
oh
what is fetch
the web api it's part of the browser
right it's part of the browser and what
did we just say
pretty much all of these browser web
apis return
what do they all return
promises baby
yeah
that's right
that's right you got got that's right
oh
you feel that
i did
oh
so
hold on
so fetch
is a web api
we know that all the web apis
return
promises
and so then that makes sense this whole
time when we saw these dens and these
catches
we were just resolving or rejecting
our promises
if the promises resolved
we took the response we got
and then the then fired and the cool
thing about these dens is that they just
chain
so the first then would run
once that resolved well the next den
would would fire if something went wrong
the catch would fire
right so the idea here is that
we've already used this we've been using
promises
this whole time
we've been seeing them resolve or get
rejected now we're just learning the
language behind it and the reason why we
need this is because fetches take time
javascript can't wait
javascript says hey oh give me the
object and we'll keep going
and eventually that object has a value
eventually the promise returns right the
promised resolve sorry and once the
promise resolves our then triggers and
then our then triggers if something was
to go wrong right so much stuff
so much stuff can go wrong when we make
a fetch
so much stuff could go wrong the server
could break the server could be down
it could reject our request maybe maybe
we had too many people requesting from
that api and they started blocking us
right
so the promise
returns the promise resolves and as the
promise resolves it also has a value
and that value gets passed in right
wherever you see res typically that's
the
the value that's being passed in as the
as it resolves and the then method is
fired we're passing in the data that
came along with that resolution as well
we saw it here here we were just passing
in like a string but with with the fetch
what are we probably sending along well
as it resolves what's probably getting
resolved
yeah it's probably like that json object
right so it wouldn't be a string it'd be
that json object that's the value that's
being passed into the then and that
value that's being passed into the next
then so we can console log the data
cool
all right so
fetch returns a promise
just like a bunch of the web apis
running our asynchronous code
so we've already used promises we've
already seen the promise of a better
future because our fetches work
it shouldn't work javascript this single
thread it blocks it should not work
but since we're running javascript in
the browser
it does we can hand off that fetch to
the web api
the web api does its thing and instead
of using nasty disgusting callbacks what
are we using so we can take our time
a promise exactly we're using a promise
nice
all right let's see those three so we
already looked at the three states we
already saw the we already saw the
pending the the fulfilled to reject it
um we can actually bring back the
console log of the object look this is
this is the actual object so the neat
thing is we can actually console log the
the object itself like the promise
object itself and so here we set error
equal to true
so what what do we expect the state of
this promise to be like when we console
log it what do we expect that this
promise should be
like what's the state we should see on
it
yeah let's go take a look
let's refresh
uh we see that it's in the rejected
state
right so if we actually look at the
object we would see that rejected that
rejected property on it
yeah
cool
dope
all right
we walked through this code together
already
uh let's get paid by everyone
this time however instead of nasty
callback hell we are going to use
promises so we're going to set up each
customer with a promise
and that way we can use our promises
to make code that looks a little bit
more normal
right it looks a little bit more like
javascript so let's get closer
to writing some code that's readable
that looks a little bit closer to actual
javascript and we're not falling into
that nasty callback hill
right so let's get paid
all right here's our code
we have house one
set up as a promise and we can see that
house one takes a full second
then we have house two
which takes five seconds
and we see house three which takes two
seconds but every single house
is a what
inside of each single one of these
houses is a what
it's a promise
you can see inside of each one of these
houses is a promise some of the promises
have a set up timeout that takes a
second some have five seconds some have
two seconds but if we run this code so
let's go and run it and comment out our
other example here
beautiful
and
we come down to our new one here
code six
i'm gonna comment all this out there we
go beautiful we're gonna go back and run
it
all right we see he delivered to house
one that took five seconds
and we see house two that took i think
two seconds and then three right
all right so now we have this lovely
one two and three
it doesn't matter how long each house
takes we see the first house takes one
second we see that house two takes five
seconds we see that house two house
three takes two seconds it just doesn't
matter each house can take its own time
we don't bug out because each house
returns a promise
and down here we can chain our promises
so house one runs
it resolves and if the promise on house
one resolves what is what fires
if the promise of house one resolves
what what fires
then exactly
so let's follow our dens
all right
the then fires and we console log the
data
where is that data coming from where is
this what what data are we talking about
house one resolves we console log data
what the heck does that mean let's go
back and take a look at house one
where is that data coming from
yeah we see inside the resolve
the data that we are sending back
is paper delivered to house one so that
is what gets passed in as data and
that's why when we look at it we see in
the console delivered to house one
great
once this then is done running
what what happens next
this first then is done what happens
next
it change it goes on to the next then
so the next then
is running house two
so house two runs
right house two runs and it too has a
promise that resolves
after five seconds and that's why we see
print it to the console
house two then the next then fires and
we run house three
and we see that this house three is a
promise that resolves and then we see
console logged
house
three so this works
right it's definitely more readable than
call back hell
right
it's definitely more readable than call
back hell callback cal there's no way
that you're troubleshooting anything
something breaks in in house two
there's there's no way that we're we're
going to like figure out what the heck
is happening
uh so promises can be chained exactly
yep this is called a promise chain yep
it's a promise chain
and um it just runs one after another as
things resolve if things went bad and it
got rejected we could see the catch but
this is way easier to resolve than if we
were stuck in callback hell
however
don't read too good
right it don't read too good
like this this works
it's more readable than callback hell
but does this look like javascript
is this really the javascript that we
know and love
no it doesn't really look like
javascript honestly
and so
i want my synchronous code to look
synchronous
and i want it now
and so
we got some new syntactical sugar
a new way to handle async responses
that is really technically still just
promises
underneath the hood
all right it's just promises underneath
the hood but it's a new way
it's a new way of making our
asynchronous
not looking good code synchronous and
boy
does it look great
so when we come back from break
i'm going to show you how to take your
ugly promise chaining code
and introduce async await so that it
reads good it looks like the javascript
we know and love
oh
you're gonna be ready for this oh can't
wait it's just uh gets my motor going
all right folks let's take a break
at the top of the hour
we're learning a lot tonight lots of new
things flying at us when we come back
we're gonna make our synchronous code
look synchronous oh it's gonna look so
good
five minutes on the clock
if you're able please get up move around
hydrate we'll be back in five minutes
folks
oh boy
we gotta get to this lovely async await
we're gonna see it's gonna make sense
it's all gonna come together and then
back in baby
jay harker added two minutes to the
timer so we're going for seven minutes
folks seven minutes on the timer here
boom
we're gonna make our ugly promise chains
look good we're gonna introduce async
await and then back and baby i promise
all this hard work pays off when we get
to the back end we're going to see why
this evolution of callback hell to
promise chains to async await helps us
when we get to back end
all right folks 10 minutes on the clock
you get a jayhawker 76 for the extension
and run some ass you actually take a
break
i'll see you soon
[Music]
do
so
[Music]
welcome back folks oh
oh that was good all right let's get
into it folks
come on back come on back
all right
let's go ahead and talk a little bit
through
our asynchronous code right
let's look through our our our code here
and we want our asynchronous code to
start looking synchronous right if we
look
we got this chaining
and this is starting to look a little
synchronous meaning like we're going one
after another
right looks like we're going one after
another
right it looks like it's working one
after another boom boom boom
right and so we're getting there we're
getting to this point where our code
that is really asynchronous in nature
right we're handing this stuff off to
the browser the web apis all that
goodness is happening and then those
responses are coming back and now we can
start handling these responses
in a way
right
right in a way
right in a way that starts to look a
little synchronous
right like the normal javascript we
would write one after another and
with
the beauty that is some of the newer
javascript right the newer drop shadows
coming through like the es 8 plus like
the ecmascript 28 plus 2018 plus we
started to get
this wonderful thing called async await
and this async await made our
asynchronous code start to look a little
synchronous trying to make it look like
the other javascript that we know
and love
and it's just a way to handle these
asynchronous responses remember we're
doing stuff that javascript shouldn't be
able to do
that gets handed off
right that gets handed off
and that gets handed off
to
the browser
the browser starts to do stuff with it
and then responds so we need a way to
handle those responses we saw that
callbacks can lead the callback hell we
saw that promises with the then chaining
it's okay but it doesn't literally look
like good javascript uh and so we got a
lovely new async await syntax digital
fendi hey thank you for the posture
check let's see let's get in here huh
all right there we go
cool all right there we go beautiful
and the interesting thing about
our async await is that's just
syntactical sugar on top of promises
that makes our asynchronous code easier
to write and read afterwards if we had
to keep track of these like
promise chains like yeah it would work
but it don't read too good right don't
read too good
and so i want to use something that
makes our code easier to read and write
but it's still just we have to
understand promises underneath the hood
after all
and so we have this lovely syntax
where a weight
waits for an asynchronous process to
complete
inside of an async function what
a wait waits for an asynchronous like
something that's going to take a while
to complete as long as it is inside of
an a sync function so let's take a look
here we have the same functions that are
promises
all right we have the same functions
that are promises
and then
we have this lovely async function
that just works the same as our promised
chains
look at this code folks
look at this look at this
now we talking
look at this code folks oh
look at this code
all right we have an async
in front of our function
right we have async in front of our
function
and then we can just tell
our house one to await
and once it's done
we'll store whatever response we got
back
inside of house one weight
then
we have this next bit of code here house
208 whatever happens gets stored in
house two weight
and then we have house three way
whatever gets stored there it gets put
in house three weight and then we do our
console log so let's actually run that
code let's run this code let's let's
comment up our
disgusting promise chains here
ugh go away
and then let's come down here to
the same the same functions right the
same functions however
with our lovely async oh look at that
our lovely async await syntax let's save
it let's go back to the browser let's
run it and let's see what happens
taking our time
we're waiting
all right
oh take your time
and one two
three
hey look at us go so even though
even though
house one takes a second
house two takes five seconds house three
takes two seconds like even though we
should think it should be one two three
with this lovely async awaits syntax we
can have all of our asynchronous stuff
and a nice
beautiful
wrapper that looks synchronous
wow
looks so good folks
looks so good
but now you're like leon
come on
i need something real
give me something real
leon you're talking about getting paid
you're talking about
you you've been talking about houses
give me some give me something real
give me something real
all right
so we've built api request out the wazoo
right so let's take a look at an api
request using the async await syntax
boom here you go folks
we have the lovely async in front of our
function and then that means we can use
the await syntax inside of that function
so here
we're going to await the fetch
whatever comes back
right whatever it comes from this
resolution
right remember this is still what
underneath the hood we're still doing a
fetch fetch still returns a what
it still returns a promise right so we
know that this is going to resolve
and whatever gets resolved from this
promise is going to be stored in res
then we await
the lovely making sure what we got back
is javascript right we we have this
lovely the thing we saw before with our
with our normal promise chaining right
we're just making double making it
javascript making sure we got the thing
that we care about
and then that gets stored in data
and then we console log the data so we
go from that nasty ugly
fetch with the then chaining then
chaining to this beautiful
async await syntax where our code
actually looks like it's synchronous
javascript but all of this right
all of this all of this
asynchronous stuff
right that's happening right can take
its time
but our code still looks like regular
javascript
now
here
this would work
but right now are our errors caught
nope
so with async functions we got what we
got two things
with async we got two things
yeah
folks did the reading tries and catches
so your homework
is to add a try
catch block
to this asynchronous function i want you
to try i want you to get in here get
your hands dirty
add a try catch block because we know
that a lot of things can go wrong with a
fetch right there's a lot of errors that
could happen and so i want you to come
back make sure you dig through the
reading and add a try catch block to it
so that you can catch errors
yeah that's part of your homework that's
something i need you to do before
tuesday so i need you to practice using
these async functions and so try adding
a try-catch to this
cool
all right
back end baby
we built up to it we we we
were able to get to what we came here
for
we built up to this idea that javascript
was running in the browser
since javascript was running in the
browser it had access to all these web
apis but these web apis
they're handling asynchronous stuff and
javascript is not an asynchronous
language so we needed a way for us to
hand off those things and then be able
to hear the responses that came back
from the browser we saw the first way of
dealing with those responses that was
call back hell then we saw a newer way
to handle it which was promises but
promises led to uh
promised chains
and then we have a bright new future
with async await where our see our
asynchronous code starts to look like
synchronous javascript it's super
readable we can see what's going on and
it sets us up for success
so now we got all that on the table
we can move into the back end
all right
now i have a question for you as we move
into the back end
does javascript
have access to the dom
natively built in
it doesn't nope
javascript needed
web apis to handle all the asynchronous
stuff and a bunch of other stuff in the
browser like javascript just didn't come
with the ability to handle all that
asynchronous stuff dollar didn't come
with a bunch of stuff that the browser
gave us access to
right
right so we didn't get it we got it
because javascript
was sandboxed in the browser
meaning that javascript was running in
the browser and since it was running in
the browser it got access to all that
stuff
so javascript we could think about it as
running in this environment it's running
in this sandbox and it only has access
to the stuff that that's inside the
sandbox it only has access to the
shovels and pow pals
pails that are in the sandbox
with it
now
let's stick through this for a second
javascript is running in the browser
i have a question for you does
javascript have access to the files on
our computer
no
why would that be a really bad idea if
javascript had access to the files on
our computer
yeah any website you go to could then
like look at the files on your computer
we wouldn't be able to use the internet
so javascript when it's running in the
browser does not get access to the files
on our computer because that would be a
pretty big vulnerability that's what i
mean by sandbox
javascript is running in this sandbox
and it can only play with stuff that's
in the box with it it doesn't have
access to things like on your computer
it it's stuck running in the browser
environment now the browser gives us
lots of stuff to play with it gives it
access to the dom it gives it access to
fetch it gives us access to all these
other apis that it can use
but when javascript is running in the
browser it is sandboxed it can't get
access right it can't get access to all
the files on your computer
and that's a really good idea because we
would never be able to use the internet
if every website we went to
right
if every website we went to javascript
could break out of the sandbox and play
with all the stuff on your computer that
would suck we would never be able to use
we never be able to use our computers
ever again on the internet
now
since javascript is sandboxed and it
can't access the things on our computer
every once in a while someone figures
out how to get out of the sandbox
we call those zero zero-day exploits
they're exploits that
figure out a way
to escape the soundbot the sandbox and
get access to things on your computer to
get access to
uh things that it should not have access
to
and so i'm here to tell you today
if you ever figure out one of these
exploits send me a dm i don't ever check
my dms except for this you send me an
exploit
i'll make you rich i know the people to
talk to will get paid i'll split at 50
50. right let's put it 50 50. i know who
to talk to you figured out you come talk
to me
right and we'll get paid we'll we'll go
to we'll go to cabo together we'll have
a we'll we'll we'll do some crypto
gambling we'll we'll have some fun right
because these are very very very rare
it's very rare that we figure out a way
to break out of the sandbox because that
could have devastating effects so when
you figure it out come to me i'll put
you in touch with the right people we'll
split it 50 50. go to cabo do some
gambling have some drinks we'll figure
it out
cool all right
somebody offer me 60 40. all right go
ahead getting screwed you trust me this
this is
you trust me come on this is what this
has all been about
let's just get your trust so that when
you find a zero day exploit you come to
me and nobody else that's it
think don't you wanna go ride jetskis
exactly
come on now
you trust me
i'll make sure you get paid
all right
now
this makes sense and this idea of the
sandbox makes sense because javascript
is a language that can only do
what the hosting environment allows
when we run javascript in the browser it
gives us access to what what is when we
run javascript in the browser what does
it give javascript access to
we get access to the web apis we get
access to the dom we get access to fetch
we get access to all the stuff that we
get by only running javascript in the
browser like the dom
cool so javascript is a language that
can only do what the hosting environment
allows
now let's think for a second if we're
trying to get to back end development
what do servers actually need
what do servers do
they serve yeah so they serve up files
now do these files exist magically like
in an ether somewhere where do these
files exist if if the point of a server
is to serve where do these files exist
in some sort of storage right
it needs the files have to exist
somewhere so they're probably on disk
somewhere either on a hard drive or an
ssd like the files have to be somewhere
and so they're probably on a hard drive
or an ssd somewhere like the files have
to exist somewhere on the computer
they're not magic right
and then servers also do what they they
serve but what does that mean
what does it mean to serve
yeah it can it can
hear requests
for those files
and respond with those files so if it
can hear a request and respond
what else does it need access to
it needs access to the internet right if
our servers don't have the ability to
like listen to network requests like if
they don't have access to the internet
they don't have access to a network
right it doesn't have to be the internet
it can be like a local network as well
right if it doesn't have access to a
network
then it can't hear the request it
doesn't know what to serve you
and if it doesn't have access to the
disk
right if it doesn't have the ability to
get the files off the hard drive or the
ssd
right
then it can't do its job
so our servers are going to need access
to the disk
either hard drive or ssd to get the
files that they are then going to send
to you right and our servers need to be
able to hear what files you want and
then respond with those files so it
needs access to the network
now
let's ask a very serious question
does javascript have the ability to
access the hard drive or the ssd on our
servers does javascript have the ability
to listen to the network
does that come out the box with just
javascript the language
no
javascript doesn't have access to the
disk javascript doesn't have access to
the network that would be a really bad
day if just regular javascript had
access to all that stuff because then it
wouldn't even need the browser to just
do it itself so javascript out the box
does not have access to the disk it
can't get our files off of our computers
it does not have access to the network
so it can't listen to requests and
generate responses
but what if
what if folks
what if there was a hosting environment
that allowed javascript
to have disk access
and network access
so they could hear requests
it could generate responses it could
pull files off of a hard drive or an ssd
this is a warning
what if there
was
a hosting environment where we could run
our javascript
and that javascript would have access to
the disk it would have access to the
network well
[Music]
okay
hey does this work let's go
that's no baby that's node
this node let's go
let's go
alright so
we're super excited
and uh we go and we go to the node
website nodejs.org we go there and we
see all right we're super pumped we get
it right node's going to give us access
to disk and network we're really cool
but we understand like javascript was
running in the browser now we could run
it and something that gives us access to
the disk network and we go to the
website and the website says this
javascript node.js is a javascript
runtime built on chrome's v8 javascript
engine
the disrespect we got all excited we go
to their website and they give us this
[__]
node.js is a javascript runtime
built on chrome's v8 javascript engine
all right let me break this down for you
the same [__] that lets you run
javascript in the browser
can now be used to run javascript on
servers desktops and everywhere else
pretty much
and so that's node
right the same shift that lets you run
your javascript in the browser can now
be used to run javascript elsewhere and
so we can go through and we can kind of
edit this a little bit
note as a javascript runtime we can just
say like is an environment
built on top of chrome's v8 engine well
crosby engine
is this like
the stuff
or the [__]
that
enables
js to
run
in
the browser
all right so we can just get rid of
chrome's real engine the ship that
enables javascript to run in the browser
um can now run everywhere else so so
node is just an environment
that uses the same stuff that the
browsers used
to enable our javascript to run
so notice just an environment where we
run our javascript
that uses the same stuff that the
browsers were using
but now
we can run it on servers
desktops
everywhere else
why can't they just say that
why can't they just like the browser
right
right just like just like the browser
give us access to a bunch of stuff
well well node gives us bunch a bunch of
stuff
why can't they just say
that it'd be so much easier that would
be so much better all right so
let's talk about how jeff goldblum saved
the world real quick
um
how did jeff goldblum save the world
chat
bub exactly binary upload boom so jeff
goldblum reversed engineered
the aliens code wrote a computer virus
that took down their shields we nuked
america right so
jeff goldblum was able to write that
computer virus because they broke down
the code all the way to like the zeros
and ones
like the actual code that runs on our
actual hardware right
our computers don't actually run
javascript
right that javascript gets broken down
into something that the computer can
actually understand
the thing that's doing that like
breaking down
is called the v8 engine
that's it
so in the browser the v8 engine is the
thing that takes our javascript and
breaks it down into something that the
computer can understand
and that engine not only does it in the
browser
but the engine also does it for node
so the thing that takes like that really
easy to understand javascript and breaks
it down into the code that the computer
needs to understand
that's the v8 engine
now some people are saying is that a
compiler
sorta it does more right it does like
the compilation stuff it also does like
garbage cleaning like all the stuff that
like doesn't come with javascript that
we need the v8 engine kind of does all
of that when we get to
class next week yeah
we'll learn more of the like the
technical jargon around all this so save
things like compiler transpiler
interpreter let's say that to next week
when we get to like the the heavier
portions of how node is actually working
but yeah it's it's all the stuff that's
going to take our javascript
and break it down to something that the
computer can understand it does all that
heavy lifting for us and the cool thing
is
just like the browser's web apis
node comes with a bunch of stuff so
javascript was running in the browser
and it got access to the web apis now
we're saying wait a minute let's take
javascript and run it in node right and
that means we get a bunch of stuff
we get all the stuff that comes built in
with node
and so we have all these libraries or
modules and these modules are just
collections of functions basically and
so we have an http module which is a
bunch of functions that have already
been written for us that enable us to
talk to networks like to hear requests
to generate responses to like listen to
the internet basically and so that just
comes built in with node just like the
browser came built in with like fetch
and the dom node comes built in with
like http access like access to the
internet access to the network right
also it comes with the fs or the file
system module which is just a collection
of functions that enable us to access
the file system remember a server needs
to hear request generate responses and
to get those responses we need to like
get files off of our server and send
them to you
and so javascript has no way of doing
that
but when we run javascript inside of
node we get access to the network we get
access to the file system
and we also get access to millions of
other packages aka groupings of other
custom modules or groupings of other
custom functions have already been
written to us through things like npm
yarn and other package managers so the
cool thing is we were running javascript
in the browser but now we can run it in
node and get access to things like the
network and access to the file system
and access to millions of other things
through things like npm
now we talked about the v8 engine doing
the heavy lifting but the reason why
node is is pretty fun and cool to work
with is that underneath the hood it's
really just using c and c plus plus
which means it's super fast right it's
really fast maybe not the the fastest
but it's it's pretty damn fast
and we get access to all this stuff
that's been done for us already when we
run javascript it's being broken down
and using all of these like fancy stuff
that's been written in c and c plus plus
so we don't have to so we don't have to
worry about how we're handling the
network access how we're handling
accessing the network we don't have to
figure out how we're actually like doing
any type of compilation or garbage
collection we don't actually have to
worry about the event loop or any of
that stuff that we're going to get to
next week it's all being handled for us
and that's the beauty of running our
javascript inside of the node
environment we get access to all this
stuff that's super fast that's written
in cnc plus plus and we get to get this
takes care of all the heavy lifting for
us
right
we get to use the javascript that's
readable
we get to use the javascript that we
feel comfortable with the javascript
that's worked in browsers for years and
years and years so we get to take all
that syntax all that knowledge all that
learning and run it in a new environment
that gives us access to new stuff now we
get access to the network we get access
to our file system so the code that only
used to run in the browser can now run
on our servers and we get the benefit of
only needing to learn one language to
both write code on the front end in the
browser and the back end on our servers
via node
cool
i think so too pony i think it's pretty
all right now there's a lot of stuff
here
there's a lot of stuff here we can talk
about the call stack we can talk about
the callback queue we can go deeper into
what the heck are node modules the event
loop all that stuff
tuesday i got you
don't worry i got you
see some of you are like oh i want to go
i want to learn more about that
i got you
all right so
part of your homework over the weekend
is to set up your environment aka set up
node thank you benito uh we want you to
set up node um for a lot of folks
installing node can be a little bit of a
journey
but just save yourself some pain
and just go to the node website that's
the link in the slides and you don't do
it right now do it when you have some
time if you haven't done it as part of
the reading and you're going to install
node just from the website right
just just trust me just do it from the
website for the first time you can use
your package managers later on you can
use
your node managers later on you can use
your home brew or whatever the heck
later on but for the first time
trust me across thousands of students
i've seen the most unbelievable
nightmares happen as people try to set
up their their environments it's just
easier
if you just click the button just just
for this time if later you want to set
up mvm all that other fun stuff you can
right
yeah so you can but for just click the
buttons do that for me please all right
but i love the pain
it's all right you won't recognize the
pain right away
it's slow
it comes on when you least affect it
cool all right so you see here that we
see something interesting we see this
lts
and we see the current
and
some people are like well leon what do i
use let's talk about what the
differences are
typically there's three what we call
release schedules the lts or long term
stable
the current and then a lot of projects
have a nightly version as well and i
think this is actually a little bit like
a little bit old so i'm going to click
this hopefully it gives me the phone all
right here we go cool this is my photo's
a little old here's the newer one so
what you can see here is the developers
that build node like build the actual
like build out the node project they
give a schedule here
of the different versions and when
they're actively being developed and how
long they're going to support them for
so maintenance means that like we know
that you've built your projects on node
here's how long we're going to support
that version for so if any security
vulnerabilities crop up we will handle
them you can trust if you're building on
this version here's how long that
version will be supported for
and so if you are
on an engineering team and you're trying
to make a decision like you're building
your app from scratch you're like
alright what do we start with you have a
few options
you can see that the current
lts is 16
and it is
still in active development but that
will end in october
and then it will go into maintenance
mode all the way until april 2024
so if you were to build on top of known
6 node 16
you would have all the way until april
2024 to feel really confident right to
feel really confident hey mets does it
feel really confident in
like your your your version of node
working well all the security
vulnerabilities are being patched
everything
but if we kind of look 18 is looking
pretty good right now 18 is looking
pretty good right now
because 18 is going to be in current
development so there's gonna be some new
stuff that are coming out so some folks
don't like
using the thing that's currently being
developed because they're afraid maybe
that some newer features might come out
and maybe they might not be ready for
prime time
but you'll see that the active window
will be a lot longer and then the
maintenance window takes you all the way
into 2025. so as a team you have to make
a decision are you going with the
current lts
or are you going with
um the the the the currently being
developed version or
are you uh uh
a maverick and gonna go with a nightly
nightly is like all the newest features
like your [__] will probably break
and uh the cool thing is like a lot of
other software
uses this type of schedule like chrome
chrome has a stable channel which you
most people are using they have a
developer channel where you get all the
new features but some stuff might not
work and then they have the wild wild
west which is the nightly channel where
things just like break
right um but you get to see all the cool
stuff first
and so
i recommend that if you are kind of
going through this course
that you have two choices you can go
with lts or you can go with 18.
you're not going to lose anything if you
went with either or all by code works
with 16 going forward so it's up to you
if you want to start with the lts or the
current
i'm using 18 right now right so if you
want it to be exactly like i have you
would use 18 but you can't go wrong
using either of these because i know a
lot of people kind of already set up
their environment
if you're on something lower than 16 you
gotta update though
cool
all right
now let's take a look at a simple
server let's take a look at a simple
server
here is my simple node server
you can see here
that i'm requiring the http module
and that http module is going to give me
access to the what
what's that http module going to give me
access to
it's going to give us access to the
network exactly how about the fs module
what's that going to give us access to
it's going to give us access to the file
system
beautiful
the file system and then down here you
can see
that i am using the http module and what
the heck is create server what is that
what is create server just by looking at
it what is create server
it's a method right that means http is
an object and create server is a method
and so we're going to still see like
javascript is still javascript right
even though we're getting all these
extra goodies like we're getting access
to the network we're getting access to
the file system right
it's still javascript underneath the
hood that's enabling us to do all this
stuff so we don't we don't throw the
baby out with the bathwater right we we
still have all the same goodies we just
get added extra added stuff here right
and so we can see that create server is
a method that is part of the http
module right built into this http module
you could see all these like really wild
functions that do all the heavy lifting
for us just like the dom did all the
heavy lifting for us just like fetch did
all the heavy lifting for us this module
has all these methods built into it
right that has all these methods built
into it that enable us to do stuff and
we can see that one of the methods
literally help create the server
that then listens on a specific port you
could think of you could have multiple
servers running on one computer
but they could all be listening out
different windows and so this is the
window i'm listening out onto
right
right i'm listening to the 8000 port and
all this stuff is just using the core
modules eventually we'll use things that
make the syntax prettier that make it
easier to read but this is like
raw node right we're just using the base
http module we're using the base file
system module and what we're doing is
we're saying hey create a server that's
listening on port 8000 when it hears any
request
when it hears any request
we're going to read this file this html
file
and we're going to respond with it we're
going to tell them to expect an html
file we're going to send that html5 file
to them and then we're going to tell
them that our response is done right and
so let's actually see this running i'm
going to go to my code here
i have this lovely
node intro demo and i have two files
here my demojs
and i have my demo
file.html now to run this server i need
to tell node to run this file so i'm
going to open up my terminal right here
in vs code
and i'm just going to say node well
actually make sure i'm in the right
folder so let me do an ls
i need a cd into node
intro
demo
and then i'm going to run my demo.js
file
so node
demo.js
all right
we can see something here
hold on let me let me move my head out
the way you can see something here when
i read node gemma node
demojs what happened what happened right
here
i didn't get my i didn't get my my
prompt back
all right i didn't get my my rebel back
you can see that it hasn't given me the
ability
to enter in any more commands because my
server is running i better go catch it
right my server's running so i can see
that it's running because i haven't
gotten like my my repo back to type more
stuff so it's running
and if i go to the port 8000 so when
we're running servers on our machine
we're pretty much always going to use
localhost
8000 is the port i'm on and when i go
there i see hello world
hold on
all right we went to port 8000
and it sent us back
this hello world file however look look
let's go back
let's chill the server
you can see i have my repo back right
like i can i can type more commands if i
want it to
right and so is my server running
anymore
nah
so if i go back and i refresh
eat
it's gone
so this is legitimately a server that is
serving up
right it is literally serving up
our html file if we go back and look
this demo file.html just says hello
world that's what's in there
right how did i turn it off i just did
control c on my computer control c
that's what gives me back my prompt here
my my reple right so now
i can start my server
hit enter we can see that it's running
if i come back and i refresh oh boy
i'm serving up an html file
right i'm serving up an html file
right we are running
javascript files in our node environment
which is giving us access to the network
which is giving us access to the file
system i'm able to grab files off my
disk i'm able to serve them up i'm
listening on a specific port
first try
and so with this very simple bit of code
this is your warning folks
with this very simple bit of code using
what node gives us access to getting
access to the network getting access to
the file system with just some simple
code where we're saying hey whenever we
hear a request this is the response
we're sending
[Music]
hey does this work let's go
you are all now newly knighted full
stack web developers go out there and do
well with this knowledge
that's all it takes you're back in now
baby let's go
so now you are developers that can write
front end code
and your developers that can write
back-end code that literally
legitimately runs on a server
you are now full stack web developers
the secret is
i could not write this from scratch
i copy and paste it right maybe by now i
could probably do it but
most of the back end is really kind of
like copying and pasting stuff in the
beginning until you get comfortable with
it so you can't be like leah nah i don't
do this yet i don't even know how to do
this yet i've been doing this for years
right
uh so i don't want you to like look at
this and be like ah
ain't gonna forget that now
nobody expects you to have this
memorized like that would be a fool's
errand we're gonna add
other stuff on top that makes this
process easier like express that makes
it cleaner that makes it easier to read
easier to write
but in the beginning this is like i'm
saying this is raw this is just using
what node gives us at the base level the
http module the fs module that's it and
we can use that right we can use that to
build the simplest of servers and become
full stack web developers let's go i'm
hella proud of you all
this is a long lecture
you stuck it out you learned a lot of
wonderful code
you've been here for a few months now
but now you're full stack web developers
baby
update your resumes update your
linkedins tell your mama i'm full stack
baby
let's go
congratulations you deserve it you
really do
jay says welcome to full stack everyone
hey thank you jay
let's go congrats everybody
all right
now
we got some wonderful stuff this evening
we're gonna see on tuesday a more
complex back end we're going to spend
more time talking about things like the
event loop and what node is actually
doing to help us how does javascript
really run in the browser how does it
really run on the server
right and then we're going to use that
to build a more complex back end baby
we're going to get that more look at
that more complex background we're going
to get that going uh and we're going to
talk about
a lot of fun things so this weekend i
need you to do some stuff please don't
run away just yet i want you to do some
stuff
this weekend i need you to start taking
the bank seriously
come on now
look
it's my birthday i ain't running away
yet come on now
i need to start taking the bank
seriously
please
start the bank
you need to complete your professional
links as well i opened up the submission
today so i need you to go through and uh
keep that keep that coming through make
sure you get all the stuff in here
and then i need you to uh don't worry
about these two but i need you to go
through and get node installed
i need you to come back and
run this simple code make this work
i need you to go back through the slides
and i need you to ask questions on
discord
right i need to ask questions on discord
if you do all those things you're gonna
have a good weekend
there's a little bit other bit homework
on the discord but those are the big
things i need you to do please start the
bank please start looking at this code
get node installed make sure you finish
up your professional links we're going
into the next week hard right we're
gonna we're gonna this this this back
end stuff's gonna keep growing it's
gonna keep taking off
um
let's see where we're at hold on one
second one second i want to see one
other thing before we we go off and do
our uh
yeah i don't want to see i just want to
see something else here
really important stuff to talk about
real quick before we leave
i got to clean it up
some of y'all don't know how to read the
prompt
let's see
hold on there's a lot of stuff oh crap
all right i'll save this holy smokes all
right nevermind i can't clean this up
fast enough i was going to tell you how
much money we brought in from from our
from our freelancing it's a lot
but there's a lot like some people put
like usd or something like text in there
so i gotta i gotta clean it up a little
bit uh so i'll i'll announce on tuesday
how much money oh maybe i'll do it
during office hours remember sunday we
have office hours we're talking about
how much money we brought in from
freelancing it's a lot folks i'm seeing
hundreds and hundreds of responses so
far of folks that caught freelancing
clients this is wild stuff that i'm
looking at right now uh but let's go
ahead and end on a high note we always
like to do a raid uh so let's go ahead
and send some some love and positivity
somebody's way
um
let's see
we haven't been to
uh true in a minute oh rufio's on let's
go to rufio
all right let's go and do our raid
remember if you haven't followed already
my birthday wish was that you give them
a follow on both twitch and twitter and
let's go ahead and read rufio
alright folks
have a wonderful rest of your day have a
wonderful rest of your evening thank you
so much for the birthday wishes thank
you for everyone that checked in on me
and my wife i really appreciate you all
have a wonderful rest of your day have a
good weekend i will see you on sunday
and we're back at it with node folks i
can't wait to keep going deeper into the
back end let's read
this youtube